Service Catalog Score cards (#642)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/service-catalog/scorecards.md

---
title: "{{site.konnect_short_name}} Scorecards"
content_type: reference
layout: reference

products:
    - gateway
works_on:
  - konnect

> description: Scorecards in Service Catalog allow platform teams to monitor services for compliance with Kong-recommended and industry-defined best practices in {{site.konnect_short_name}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Scorecards in Service Catalog allow platform teams to monitor services for compliance with Kong-recommended and industry-defined best practices in {{site.konnect_short_name}}.

breadcrumbs:
  - /service-catalog/
```

related_resources:
  - text: "Service Catalog"

>     url: /service-catalog/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    url: /service-catalog/
  - text: Traceable integration
    url: /service-catalog/integrations/traceable/
  - text: GitHub integration
    url: /service-catalog/integrations/github/
  - text: GitLab integration
    url: /service-catalog/integrations/gitlab/
  - text: SwaggerHub integration
    url: /service-catalog/integrations/swaggerhub/
  - text: Datadog integration
    url: /service-catalog/integrations/datadog/
  - text: PagerDuty integration
    url: /service-catalog/integrations/pagerduty/
```
Nice to have?: Maybe this is overkill, but I kind of wanted links to the integrations here otherwise I'd have to go back to service catalog landing page, then to integrations, etc. Or search. 

I don't think GitLab has a stub, but I can ignore that broken link when I review since I know you added the page in your other PR.

> faqs:
>   - q: How do I enable a Scorecards on a Service
>     a: |
>       To enable a Scorecard on a Service
>       1. From [Service Catalog](https://cloud.konghq.com/us/service-catalog/) click **Scorecard** in the sidebar.
>       2. Select **New Scorecard**
>       3. Name the scorecard, enable or disable scorecard criteria, and select which services you want the scorecard to apply to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
I think this should be in the body text, otherwise it kind of gets hidden.

---

> When creating a scorecard, you define the validation criteria and specify which services should be evaluated. Scorecards help you detect issues, like whether there are services in the catalog that don't have an on-call engineer assigned or if you have GitHub repositories with stale pull requests that aren't getting reviewed or closed. From the scorecard view, you can view details on either a per-service or per-criteria basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Service Catalog scorecard helps you evaluate services based on validation criteria. Scorecards help you detect issues, like whether there are services in the catalog that don't have an on-call engineer assigned or if you have GitHub repositories with stale pull requests that aren't getting reviewed or closed. From the scorecard view, you can view details on either a per-service or per-criteria basis.
```
Reframing this as what it does vs. enabling it.

## Scorecard templates

{{site.konnect_short_name}} provides several scorecard templates to help ensure your services adhere to industry best practices.

| Scorecard template | Description |
|--------------------|-------------|
| Service documentation | Ensures that your services are well-documented with ownership information, documentation files, and [API specs](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/). |
| Service maturity | Measure performance reflecting industry-defined DORA metrics: deployment frequency, lead time for changes, change failure rate, and time to restore service. |
| Kong best practices | Best practices that we encourage users to follow when using other {{site.konnect_short_name}} applications. |
| Security and compliance | Enforces that services are protected through external monitoring and vulnerability management tools. |

## Service documentation linting

The service documentation template supports the following Spectral recipes:

> | Category           | Description     | Link |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Category           | Description     | Recipe rules |
```
Link just felt a bit out of place

|------------|----------|------|

> | **OAS Recommended** | Uses Stoplight's style guide. Only considers criteria tagged with `"recommended: true"` | [Stoplight Style Guide](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/stoplight-style-guide) |
> | **OWASP Top 10**   | Set of rules to enforce OWASP security guidelines | [OWASP Top 10 API Security Guide](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/owasp-top-10-2023) |
> | **URL Versioning** | Set of rules to enforce versioning | [API Versioning Guide](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/versioning) |
> | **Documentation**  | Set of rules to enforce documentation best practices | [API Documentation Guidelines](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/documentation) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| OAS Recommended | Uses Stoplight's style guide. Only considers criteria tagged with `"recommended: true"` | [Stoplight Style Guide](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/stoplight-style-guide) |
| OWASP Top 10   | Set of rules to enforce OWASP security guidelines | [OWASP Top 10 API Security Guide](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/owasp-top-10-2023) |
| URL Versioning | Set of rules to enforce versioning | [API Versioning Guide](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/versioning) |
| Documentation  | Set of rules to enforce documentation best practices | [API Documentation Guidelines](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/documentation) |

## Enable a scorecard

To enable a scorecard on a service:
     
1. From [Service Catalog](https://cloud.konghq.com/us/service-catalog/) click **Scorecard** in the sidebar.
2. Select **New Scorecard**
3. Name the scorecard, enable or disable scorecard criteria, and select which services you want the scorecard to apply to.
```
Unbolded table column for consistency with other tables and added the "enable" section here instead of the FAQ.

| Kong best practices | Best practices that we encourage users to follow when using other {{site.konnect_short_name}} applications. |
| Security and compliance | Enforces that services are protected through external monitoring and vulnerability management tools. |

## Service documentation linting

The service documentation template supports the following Spectral recipes:

| Category           | Description     | Recipe rules |
|------------|----------|------|
| OAS Recommended | Uses Stoplight's style guide. Only considers criteria tagged with `"recommended: true"` | [Stoplight Style Guide](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/stoplight-style-guide) |
| OWASP Top 10   | Set of rules to enforce OWASP security guidelines | [OWASP Top 10 API Security Guide](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/owasp-top-10-2023) |
| URL Versioning | Set of rules to enforce versioning | [API Versioning Guide](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/versioning) |
| Documentation  | Set of rules to enforce documentation best practices | [API Documentation Guidelines](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/documentation) |

## Enable a scorecard

To enable a scorecard on a service:
     

> 1. From [Service Catalog](https://cloud.konghq.com/us/service-catalog/) click **Scorecard** in the sidebar.
> 2. Select **New Scorecard**
> 3. Name the scorecard, enable or disable scorecard criteria, and select which services you want the scorecard to apply to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From [Service Catalog](https://cloud.konghq.com/us/service-catalog/), click **Scorecard** in the sidebar.
2. Select **New Scorecard**.
3. Name the scorecard, enable or disable scorecard criteria, and select which services you want the scorecard to apply to.
```
